add this week in rails (#674)
rails/website: _posts/2026-06-12-this-week-in-rails.markdown

[Return an empty array from _find([])_ on a composite primary key](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/57649)  
With this fix, `Model.find([])` returns `[]` for a model with a composite primary key, the same as it does with a single primary key.

[Introduce a new mechanism for applications to prepare for ractor safety](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/57626)  
This pull request introduces a way for applications to know whether all procs passed to Rails API are ractors safe. It's opt-in by default and include 3 modes:

* `:raise` -> Rails attempt to make the proc shareable. It it's not, a loud `Ractor::IsolationError` will be raised.
* `:warn` -> We attempt to make the proc shareable. If it's not, we rescue `Ractor::IsolationError` and output a warning.
* `nil` -> We *do not* attempt to make the proc shareable.

[Allow _insert!_ to accept the _:unique_by_ option](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/57614)  
`insert!` now accepts the `:unique_by` option, consistent with `insert`.

[Make _rails new_ work again on systems that do not have vips](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/57613)  

> `rails new` was broken on Rails main if you do not have vips, but developers running `rails new` are not  expected to have `vips` installed, especially if they are not using ActiveStorage. This change fixes the generator to work even when `vips` is not installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`rails new` was broken on Rails main if you do not have vips, but developers running `rails new` are not expected to have `vips` installed, especially if they are not using Active Storage. This change fixes the generator to work even when `vips` is not installed.
```

[Fix _update_all_ / _delete_all_ ignoring _group_/_having_ (updates/deletes every row)](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/57601)  
This change fixes the issue of `update_all` / `delete_all` ignoring `group` and
`having`, updating or deleting every row in the table instead of only the rows
that satisfy the `HAVING` clause.

[Updated Active Job Basics guide](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/57592)  
As part of the Rails Foundation documentation project, the Active Job Basics guide received a big update.

> [Support _only:_ and _except:_ on __deliver_ callbacks in ActionMailer](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/57581)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Support _only:_ and _except:_ on __deliver_ callbacks in Action Mailer](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/57581)  
```
